The question is whether the shape of what, as followers of Frege, we
understand as logic proper or the logical element in thought has thus
far impeded a proper grasp of the form of certain types of actual
thought. On the the Fregean conception of 'logic,' it is the systematic
elaboration of formal connections of thought to thought; the correlative
understanding of the inner form, or 'logical form,' of individual
thoughts is one that is fitted to the study of these inter-thought
connections. 

What falls outside these forms is not thought. Thus for
example Frege is led to reject vague predicates as failing to fit with
his version of the law of excluded middle.

The distinction between past and present tenses falls to similar
considerations, even already in *Grundlagen*. It must be replaced by an
account in which tensed predicates really express atemporal relations to
particular times, so that the opposition between "$\xi$ is red" and
"$\xi$ was red (then)" turns on different ways of filling in the second
"temporal" blank in, say, "Red($\xi$,$\tau$)". 

This reduction is
reasonable enough on the face of it, though the intuition of Lewis, for
example - that redness just *isn't* a relation to something, but
something a thing can just plain *be* - must give one pause.

A more difficult case would be with aspectual judgment, whether of the
type that pertains to intentional action, or to the operations of
substances generally.

This difficulty is independent of tense: peering into the remote past,
or adopting a Godlike atemporal view - which is like looking at things
from an imaginary "time at infinity" posted after all the times and
events of real history - there will still be a difference between "the
tree was falling over (on that Tuesday)" and "the tree fell over (on
that Tuesday)"; the first might be ('timelessly') true, but the second
('timelessly') false, if say, someone did something to stop the fall, or
an H-bomb went off and vaporized the tree before it hit the ground.

Here the Fregean and indeed standard device of cutting an extra position
in a predicate that is common to both judgments, in order to represent
features of the two contents that are the same and different, is plainly
not adequate: this distinction will survive the relationalization. (I
note that Lewis' four-dimensionalist solution to the problem of tensed
state-attribution will not work either.) The Fregean will simply have to
accept two predicates, "$\xi$ fell over on (date) $\tau$" and "$\xi$ was
falling over on $\tau$", and will be unable to represent the - evidently
*formal* - connection between them.

It is sometimes thought that the manifold of times and dates is
something extralogical, just some of the stuff we think about, and thus
that the reduction of "$\xi$ is red" to "Red ($\xi$, now)" and of "$\xi$
was red" to something like "$\exists$t t$\prec$now $\wedge$ Red($\xi$,
t)" gets time out of logic - that is, out of the form of thought and
into its content. But it is hard to see how a similar trick can be
pulled in the aspectual case: we have to do with a distinction of
representations of things as "complete" and "incomplete", as grammarians
put it, and it is not clear that this can be represented as a matter of
content rather than form.

This sort of example might lead one to doubt that that everything that
pertains to the form of thought is represented in the Fregean system and
its successors, however much enriched by modal and suchlike operators.
The systems characteristically accept only one *form of predication*,
which is exactly the form that is found in purely mathematical
judgments. But, on the face of it, the aspectual opposition would force
us to accept at least two more. And similarly, it would force us to
recognize a *form of predicable item* that is intrinsically such as to
admit these two modes of predication - it is built for them, so to speak
- and which is thus distinct from the Fregean *Begriffswort* and its
successors in later systems.

It involves a symbolic perversity akin to that of Peirce's existential
graphs (or indeed Frege's system as a whole), but one might imagine a
*Begriffsschrift* attempting to come to terms with this by admitting
different positions for contentful sign of the relevant sort, so that
"$\xi^{\text{fall over}}\tau$" and "$\xi_{\text{fall over}}\tau$" would
express respectively "$\xi$ fell over, on (date) $\tau$" and "$\xi$ was
falling over, on (date) $\tau$". All concrete symbols of that type -
genuine verbs we might call them - would admit these *two* modes of
'unity' with other signs, and in the initial specification of
vocabulary, they would have to occupy a line different from the one
supplied for 'normal' one-place predicates, two-place predicates, etc.,
as they are usually understood. It should be noticed that expressions of
such a type cannot be classified by the sort of 'categorial grammar'
familiar from Ajdukiewicz, Lewis and others. This is a system of
considerable abstractness and power, which, I believe can characterize
the syntax of *any* familiar logical system. In other words, the
aspectual case does not fit with Frege's model of function and argument.
*Function and argument can only combine in one way* - not to put too
fine a point on it - but aspectual considerations seem to show that the
concept *fall over* is made or forged, or born, to be joined immediately
to singular representations *in two ways*, even apart from difficulties
about tense proper. (In the 'symbolism' described above the statements
are still construed as 'tenseless'.)

The Fregean account stays too close to the sort of analysis required for
the formulation of principles of consequence. If we are only interested
in the existential generalizations made available by "the tree fell over
on that Tuesday" and "the tree was falling over on that Tuesday", we
will not need to see the sameness that my half-baked symbolism was
trying to bring out. We can just see "$\xi$ fell over, on (date) $\tau$"
and "$\xi$ was falling over, on (date) $\tau$" as two different
relational symbols with no inner logical connection. Here we have "form
without function/argument analysis." The focus on function and argument
is closely related to the focus on iterability, apart from which the
special arts of the contemporary logician lose their point. It should be
noticed that the distinction between "it was falling" and "it fell" is
not to be compared with the opposition of, say, $\Box$ P and $\Diamond$
P, since opposed modes of predication are no more iterated than the
standard single mode of predication in, say, "F(a)" can be iterated.
<http://www.apple.com/startpage/>

I have labored this illustration as (to my mind) especially clear and
founded on what seem to be undeniable facts. Consider though what
linguists call *generic* propositions, and the particular class of them
that appear in simple discourses about species of plant and animal,
which I called "natural historical judgments": say "robins nest",
"robins have wings" etc. The linguist's expression "generic proposition"
is supposed to cover a much wider class including, say, "Dutchmen are
good sailors," "1969 Mustangs have rectangular tail-lights", "Tuesdays
are a nightmare for me," "the French 'ne...pas' means *not*", and so on.
Here there is an extensive contemporary literature in linguistics, with
a small but increasing philosophical echo. Here we have to do with a
special *form of* *generality* - or, as I think, a system of forms of
generality - but at the bottom it is the question of the *form of*
*predication* that makes for the difficulties. It is clear that in
"robins nest" and "robins have wings" the surface-grammatical
*subject,*"robin," appears as a predicate in some judgments, e.g. in
"this bird is a robin"; in the received logical atmosphere this
predicative use will inevitably be taken as the core employment of the
expression; similarly the predicate in "robins have wings" will appear
in predications of a quite different type, singular tensed predications
like "this robin has wings". The generic sentence "robins have wings"
will thus inevitably be analyzed as containing the elements "$\xi$ is a
robin" and "$\xi$ has wings". An example is in the customary use of the
"Gen x" operator, wherewith the judgment that robins have wings is
expressed "[Gen x: x is a robin][]", a formulation that is usually
traced to the treatment of "most" and similar expressions in the
categorial grammar of Lewis & co. To put it in terms of that so-called
categorial grammar, the linguists' thought is that in the generic
proposition we are secretly employing *an operator that* *takes two*
(things-that-take-names-and-yield-sentences) *and yields a sentence*
*from them*. (This is only the syntactic beginning; a flood of
semantical proposals then follow.)

It is not clear that the semantic features of "robin" that come out in
its predicative use are all those that are relevant to the formulation
of the natural history of robins. -Doctrines of this type operate on a
sentence by sentence level, as one would reasonably do with "most", but
it is clearly constitutive of the natural history "generics" that they
form a system. And so forth. The point that strikes deepest, if the
matter could be properly formulated, would I think arise from
contemplation of the *connection* between simple predications like "this
bird has wings" or "this robin has wings" and a background of generic
judgments. It is not clear that there is not a circle secretly present
in accounts that begin with this apparantly innocent syntactical
decision. To put the point crudely, the generic facts about robins have
a bearing on the facts about actual individual robins - facts that are
are presented with the form of predication contained in the sub-sentence
"x has wings". This again is in contrast with the like of "most"; what
can be predicated of an individual A rarely turns on what holds of most
A's.

Let us make a different contrast, one that shows up in exemplification
statements. If I say, *Most As are F*, *Some As are F* or *All As are
F*, I can go on, saying, *for example,* *this A is F*, *that A is F* and
so on. The predicate is tensed in *Most As are F* and the others - and
all the instances must bear the same tense. But "Robins are F" can be
illustrated with past facts about robins, - for example, this robin was
F (pointing at film) - and it would have to be so if "are F" is
something like "are spotted in the Fall", since it's not Fall right now.

The parallel with the aspectual case is clearer if we go back to the
sentence "robins nest," in which a proper (i.e. aspectible) "verb" is
employed. Intuitively, the second element in the 'Gen x' machinery would
have to be "x nests", which would have a substitution instance in "this
robin nests" affirmed in a suitable demonstrative context. In English
this proposition is *habitual* in character. It would not seem to be
truly affirmed of a perfectly ordinary adolescent robin whom I might see
now, one facing her first winter, and not having nested - since she was
born this past spring. But in any case, it is plainly not a habitual
that is wanted. This would be clearer if our example were, say,
"mayflies breed" - the individual only breeds once, not habitually; one
does not say of any one mayfly "it breeds", even at the moment when it
breeds. In the present tense - and on the face of it the judgments in
question, "robins nest" and "mayflies breed" are purely present in
character - *the only available non-habitual remark* would be the
progressive proposition "this robin is nesting". But a rewrite of the
generic proposition as "[Gen x: x is a robin][1]" would go back into
English as "robins are nesting" which, though generic, is not
natural-historical, and is in any case false when said at this time of
year (January). *It* can be said in spring, at least in years when all
goes well for robins, but "robins nest" can be said at any time of year.
The truth is that the aspectible expressions exemplified above with
"fall over" are shown to admit *yet another* form of predication in
generic propositions (and still another in habitual propositions). "This
robin was nesting last spring" (e.g. before I shot it), "this robin
nested last spring" and "robins nest in spring" all share *the same
material contents* (I overlook difficulties with the demonstrative) and
differ only by form - logical form if you like - and in the final
analysis, none can be taken as prior; these three possibilities of
thought all come into the world together. If human thought is
'discursive thought' in Kant's sense, and thus typically involves
predication, then it must be a completely false understanding of
predication, and thus of the inner character of thought itself, and of
the logical element, that would fall down before such quotidian
examples.

The linguists are trapped by a conception of predication that cleaves
too closely to the (rightly) mesmerizing model passed down to us by our
father Frege. There is something in the element we breath that makes us
torture perfectly ordinary propositions like "the tree is falling over"
and "robins breed".

This defect shows up in almost every employment of Church's
$\lambda x (...x...)$ among the linguists. It is sometimes called a
predicate abstract, but what it 'abstracts' is the Fregean predicate
which includes tense and aspect and so on: all you need to do is supply
a name and you have a complete thought. But this is not how you arrive
at what is diversly predicated, of course. Thus in e.g. G. Carlson we
have constructions like $Hab(George,,\lambda x (x, smokes)$; here we
have a double error. First, instances of $x\, smokes$ would be e.g.
$George\, smokes$, which is habitual already, so who needs the $Hab$
operator or the like? But if we switch to the non-habitual, what shall
we choose? It seems it can't be something past like $George\, smoked$ or
$George\, was\, smoking$ - replacing "George" with "x", of course. So
it'll have to be the present progressive. But the truth is plain, we
need something on the order of $to\, smoke$, something that can "make a
sentence out of a name", but in different ways, which must be marked,
and to some extent are marked in human languages. In his criticism of
Anscombe, Evans assumes that the object of intention can be captured in
the $\lambda x(...x...)$. I guess he would write
$George\, intends\,\lambda x(x\, smokes)$ when George intends to smoke,
since he does write $George\, intends\,\lambda x(x\, refers\, to\, x)$.
(It is true that "refers" is a special verb, it is performative inter
alia, and doesn't have a progressive.

To express all of this we need to introduce more nutty procedures like
the one I compare to Peirce and Frege's above. $George_{smoke}\tau$ and
$George^{smoke}\tau$ and $\frac{smoke}{George}\tau$ for progressive,
perfective and habitual respectively (assuming again that we can
separate out tense.) For generic propositions, we would need a way of
attaching a predicate to a common noun, so called - and a way to view
the subject of such judgments as also the only other ingredient in
George is an S. [^1]

[^1]: There is discussion in Dummett of the distinction between the
    Fregean 'complex predicate' and Fregean 'simple predicate'. The
    distinction was lost on the readers, cp Harman's review of FPL,
    since without considerations like these it is hard to see the
    difference between the simple predicate to smoke and the complex
    predicate smokes or is smoking if you are restricted to, say
    arithmetical language. But Dummett points out that in some sense a
    simple and complex predicate might be the same, the complex
    predicates are arrived at by deletion, but the simple ones
    presupposed in composition. The joining of simple predicates with
    other words depends on 'valence' not on the concept-object,
    function-argument analysis.

  [`http://www.apple.com/startpage/`{.url}]: http://www.apple.com/startpage/
  [Gen x: x is a robin]: x%20has%20wings
  [1]: x%20is%20nesting
